creates flip-flop-uses.md (#61)
CircuitVerse/CircuitVerseDocs: docs/flip-flop-uses.md

# Uses/Applications of Flip Flops

A Flip-Flop is an electronic circuit with two states, the present state(Q<sub>n</sub>) and the next state(Q<sub>n+1</sub>).It is used to store data 
by varying input states i.e It is a sequential circuit where output can be varied according to input timing or order.

> Flip-Flops have a wide range of application where the exisiting state has to execute or process depending on the previous state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flip-Flops have a wide range of applications where the existing state has to execute or process depending on the previous state.
```

Some of the most common applications of flip flops are :

  1. Registers
  2. Counters

## 1. Registers

A flip-flop can only store single bit binary data i.e either 0 and 1. But in complex digital circuit and applications there is a need to 

> store multiple bit data. This is where Registers comes into action. Register is used to store 'n' bit data. Register is made by combibing flip flops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
store multiple bit data. This is where Registers come into action. A register is used to store 'n' bit data. A register is made by combining flip flops.
```

> As flip-flops can only store 1 bit , 'n' flip-flops combine together to store 'n' bit data.For example:- If a register stores 8 bit data, then it is a collection of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a flip-flop can only store 1 bit , 'n' flip-flops combine together to store 'n' bit data.For example:- If a register stores 8 bit data, then it is a collection of
```

8 flip-flops.

> When a number of flip flops are connected in series, this arrangement is called a Register.Register can be further classified into two types:-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a number of flip flops are connected in series, this arrangement is called a Register. Register can be further classified into two types:-
```

  1. Asynchronous Registers
  2. Synchronous Registers
  
### 1. Asynchronous Registers

> The registers which function upon asynchronous trigers are known as “Asynchronous shift registers”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The registers which function upon asynchronous triggers are known as “Asynchronous shift registers”.
```

### 2. Synchronous Registers

The shift registers which will change their state only when they are triggered by clock pulse are called “Synchronous shift registers”.

> This registers either work for positive clock pulse or negative clock pulse depending upon their triggering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These registers either work for positive clock pulse or negative clock pulse depending on their triggering.
```

  
The stored information in form of data bits can be transferred within the registers; these are called as ‘Shift Registers’.
Shift registers are of several types, they are

  * Shift left register.
  * Shift right register.
  * Shift around register.
  * Bi directional shift registers.
  * Universal shift registers

## 2. Counters

> Counters are a specific type of sequential circuit which stores how much time a process has occured during a given clock pulse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Counter is a specific type of sequential circuit which stores how much time a process has occurred during a given clock pulse.
```
